# AngularCamp Event Safety Guidelines
<p>The heart of AngularCamp is the people. This guideline is meant to support a happy, productive and safe event experience that can welcome new ideas and inspiration for all attendees. Regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, ability, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and religion (or lack thereof). We gain strength from diversity, and actively seek participation from those who enhance it. These guidelines exist to ensure that diverse groups collaborate to mutual advantage and enjoyment. We will challenge prejudice that could jeopardise the participation of any person in the project, and we outline in this document expected, as well as prohibited behavior.</p>
<p><em>The following behaviors are expected and requested of all summit participants, including attendees, speakers, and staff.</em></p>
<p><strong>Lead by example</strong>: Each individual attending this event does so on behalf of their community. This means being considerate of how your discussions, actions and decisions will represent your community.</p>
<p><strong>Be respectful:</strong> Disagreement is no excuse for poor manners. We will exercise consideration and respect in our speech and actions, and consider collaboration before conflict. Ensure all voices are heard, not just the loudest.</p>
<p><strong>Watch your language:</strong> Refrain from demeaning, discriminatory, or harassing behavior and speech. This includes gestures and online discussions (like twitter) / back-channels (like Telegram, Slack).</p>
<p><strong>Take responsibility for your words &amp; actions:</strong> We can all make mistakes; when we do, we take responsibility for them. If someone has been harmed or offended, we listen carefully and respectfully, and work to right the wrong.</p>
<p><strong>Look out for each other:</strong> Be mindful of your surroundings and of your fellow participants. Alert an event organizer / Participation Team member if you notice a dangerous situation, someone in distress, or violations of this Guideline. If something makes you feel concerned, or worried - even if you’re not sure it’s a violation, it’s better to reach out, than to ignore.</p>
<p><strong>Expect and accommodate cultural and personal differences:</strong> Be mindful that for many, English is a 2nd, 3rd or even 4th language, and to show patience and respect while listening to and conveying ideas. Remember that we come from many cultures and backgrounds. What is friendly in one culture may not be in another. If you’re not sure what is appropriate, just ask. Remember that due to personal, religious, or other reasons, not everyone in the group may drink alcohol or even eat certain types of food. Please respect people’s choices and preferences in this regard without question or criticism.</p>
<p><strong>Ask for help:</strong> Everyone is encouraged to ask questions about this guideline.</p>
<h2 id="unacceptable-behavior">Unacceptable Behavior</h2>
<p>The following behaviors are considered harassment and are unacceptable:</p>
<p><strong>Violence and threat of violence:</strong> This includes incitement of violence towards any individual, including encouraging a person to commit self-harm.   This includes posting or threatening to post other people’s personally identifying information (“doxing”).</p>
<p><strong>Derogatory language:</strong> Hurtful or harmful language related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, mental illness, neuro(a)typicality, physical appearance, body size, race, religion, age, or socio-economic status. This includes deliberately referring to someone by a gender that they clearly do not identify with. - If you’re unsure if a word is derogatory, don’t use it.</p>
<p><strong>Sexual behavior:</strong> Unwelcome sexual attention. This includes, sexualized comments or jokes; inappropriate touching, groping, and unwelcomed sexual advances. Physical contact or simulated physical contact (e.g. textual messages like “hug” or “backrub”) without affirmative consent. This includes sharing or distribution of sexualized images. - Of course you can hug your best friend that you’ve known forever - the key word is consent.  </p>
<p><strong>Disruptive behavior:</strong> Sustained disruption of summit events, including talks and presentations will not be tolerated. This includes ‘talking over’ speakers, or influencing crowd actions that are contrary to the direction of the session. Influencing the over-consumption of alcohol, or making derogatory comments about those who abstain from alcohol.</p>
<p><strong>Instigating:</strong> Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior is the same as committing that behavior yourself, and thus the same consequences apply.</p>
<h2 id="consequences-of-unacceptable-behavior">Consequences of Unacceptable Behavior</h2>
<p>Unacceptable behavior from any summit community participants, including those with decision-making authority, will not be tolerated.</p>
<p>Anyone asked to stop unacceptable behavior is expected to comply immediately.</p>
<p>If an event participant engages in unacceptable behavior, the organizers may take any action they deem appropriate, up to and including a temporary ban or permanent expulsion from the event without a refund at the discretion of the conference organisers, as well as associated and future events without warning.</p>
<h2 id="reporting-guidelines">Reporting guidelines</h2>
<p>If you are subject to or witness unacceptable behavior, or have any other concerns, please notify the summit conduct team as soon as possible by calling <a href="https://twitter.com/davidpich">David Pich</a> at: +34620169623. You can speak in english, catalan or spanish</p>
<p>Additionally, event organizers are available to help attendees engage with local law enforcement or to otherwise help those experiencing unacceptable behavior feel safe. In the context of in-person events, organizers will also provide escorts as desired by the person experiencing distress.</p>
<h2 id="scope">Scope</h2>
<p>All attendees and organizers are expected to abide by this Code of Conduct in all venues — online and in-person — as well as in all one-on-one communications pertaining to community business.</p>
<p>This guideline and its related procedures also applies to unacceptable behavior occurring outside the scope of the AngularCamp activities when such behavior has the potential to adversely affect the safety and well-being of attendees.</p>
<!--
## Contact info TBD ... -->
<h2 id="license-and-attribution">License and attribution</h2>
<p>This Code of Conduct is distributed under a <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license</a>.
It has been adapted with few modifications from the <a href="http://2018.jsunconf.eu/coc/">JSUnconf 2018</a> (Thank you for very friendly and open, but also to the point guidelines!)</p>
